Halpage, J. & Sleiman, KC. Using ChatGPT to Translate Auditory Brainstem
Response Analysis Code from MATLAB to R

Overview

MATLAB is renowned as a programming language that is dedicated to
mathematical and technical computing, while R is a popular open source
programming language that is useful for statistical computation and
graphical representation (Carlsmith, 2024). The process of translating
code from MATLAB to R and the reverse has been shown by Carlsmith
(2024), breaking down the idea of using OpenAI sources to facilitate
this process. Using this knowledge, we wanted to ask the question "can
ChatGPT be used to assist in translating code from MATLAB to R for ABR
data?" Auditory brainstem response (ABR) is a common auditory function
assessment in hearing research, including in the Simmons lab, to
understand how well electrical information from the inner ear is
transferred to the brain. In order to assess this properly, peak
amplitude and latency need to be assessed after stimulus with varying
sound pressure levels. As such, it is vital to the success of ABR
analysis that waveform representations are clearly visible and that
peaks are distinguishable from baseline neural impulses. The goal of
this case study was to attempt to create code that can tidy ABR data
into a format readable by R, which is more a user friendly interface
than MATLAB in coding and in graphical customizability. By translating
this code to R, we hope to be able to enhance the clarity of ABR
waveforms to streamline data analysis down the line. To translate the
MATLAB code to R, we used two different approaches to see how different
prompts influence the quality of code generated by ChatGPT. We used a
longer specific prompt (Lubiana et al., 2023; Merow et al., 2023) and a
shorter vague prompt as our initial conversation starter to convert the
existing MATLAB code (MathWorks, Inc., 2024) into R code (R Core Team,
2024). Afterwards, we used a pre-existing ABR data set to run and
visualize the results of each code iteration. Each non-coding prompt and
ChatGPT response was saved as a separate .txt file, and each prompt and
ChatGPT coding response was saved as a separate .R file. Feedback was
then given to ChatGPT, referencing errors in code by copying and pasting
the error into the conversation with ChatGPT. One of the biggest issues
we ran into is that R read the data including the headers on the ABR
data file, which prevented what may have been viable code from
generating a figure. ChatGPT helped in developing a code which ignored
the headers from the ABR data file and focused solely on the relevant
data. For the shorter vague initial prompt, generic information was not
sufficient to confront the data interpretation issue and generate the
desired waveform depiction. Attempts to vaguely correct non-functional
or unsuccessful code resulted in cyclical code produced, returning to
the original error and incorrect graphical representation multiple
times. More specific subsequent prompting was required to make any
significant advances towards successful code. For the longer specific
initial prompt, it took a significantly lesser number of attempts to get
a representative ABR graph which is similar to the MATLAB output.

This case study provides an understanding about how the specificity of
prompts can affect the code quality and success when generating code
through ChatGPT. ChatGPT requires prompts that are more specific and
descriptive to the task in hand. This provides a quicker path for the
user to achieve their goal rather than spending hours on having a
never-ending conversation with ChatGPT. While this case study emphasizes
the extensive support ChatGPT can provide to a low-experience code
writer, there is still significant skill and consideration required in
approaching both prompting techniques and in troubleshooting
non-functional code. ChatGPT is capable of assisting with non-functional
code, but in the cases of poor prompting, it was often simple and
quicker to self diagnose the code issues than ChatGPT was able to do.

All files are shared at
[[https://github.com/Janithz/5100-Seminar-Case-Study.git]{.underline}](https://github.com/Janithz/5100-Seminar-Case-Study.git)

References

1\. Duncan Carlsmith (2024). Translate R to MATLAB and MATLAB to R with
ChatGPT(https://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/127424-translate-r-to-matlab-and-matlab-to-r-with-chatgpt),
MATLAB Central File Exchange. Retrieved March 19, 2024.

2\. Lubiana, T., Lopes, R., Medeiros, P., Silva, J. C., Goncalves, A. N.
A., Maracaja-Coutinho, V., & Nakaya, H. I. (2023). Ten quick tips for
harnessing the power of ChatGPT in computational biology. PLoS
computational biology, 19(8), e1011319.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011319

3\. Liu, Y., Le-Cong, T., Widyasari, R., Tantithamthavorn, C., Li, L.,
Le, X-B., & Lo, D. (2024) Refining ChatGPT-Generated Code:
Characterizing and Mitigating Code Quality Issues. ACM Trans. Softw.
Eng. Methodol. https://doi.org/10.1145/3643674

4\. Perkel, Jeffrey M. "Six tips for better coding with chatgpt."
*Nature*, vol. 618, no. 7964, 5 June 2023, pp. 422--423,
https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-023-01833-0.

5\. Yilmaz, Ramazan, and Fatma Gizem Karaoglan Yilmaz. "The effect of
Generative Artificial Intelligence (ai)-based tool use on students'
computational thinking skills, programming self-efficacy and
motivation." *Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence*, vol. 4,
2023, p. 100147, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2023.100147.

6\. Merow, Cory, et al. "Ai Chatbots can boost scientific coding."
*Nature Ecology &amp; Evolution*, vol. 7, no. 7, 26 Apr. 2023, pp.
960--962, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-023-02063-3.
